Managing compute resources - editing (#1966)
elastic/cloud-on-k8s: docs/managing-compute-resources.asciidoc

[id="{p}-managing-compute-resources"]
== Managing compute resources

To help the Kubernetes scheduler correctly place Pods in available Kubernetes nodes and ensure quality of service (QoS), it is recommended to specify the CPU and memory requirements for objects managed by the operator (Elasticsearch, Kibana or APM Server). In Kubernetes, `requests` defines the minimum amount of resources that must be available for a Pod to be scheduled; `limits` defines the maximum amount of resources that a Pod is allowed to consume. For more information about how Kubernetes uses these concepts, see: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-compute-resources-container/[Managing Compute Resources for Containers].

[float]
[id="{p}-compute-resources"]
=== Set compute resources

You can set compute resource constraints in the `podTemplate` of objects managed by the operator.

[float]
[id="{p}-compute-resources-elasticsearch"]
==== Set compute resources for Elasticsearch

> For Elasticsearch objects, make sure to consider the heap size when you set resource requirements. The heap size should be half the size of RAM allocated to the Pod. To minimize disruption caused by Pod evictions due to resource contention, you should run Elasticsearch pods at the "Guaranteed" QoS level by setting both `requests` and `limits` to appropriate values. Consider also that Kubernetes slows down containers that exceed the CPU limit defined in the `limits` section. Do not set this value too low or it would affect the performance of Elasticsearch even if you have enough resources available in the Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer: I think replacing "throttle" with "slow down" doesn't carry the same meaning. It's a bit more nuanced than that and it would be difficult to explain it without using a lot of words. I would keep "throttle" here because it's a technical term that most users should already know.

Author: OK, let's keep it.

> For Elasticsearch objects, make sure to consider the heap size when you set resource requirements. The heap size should be half the size of RAM allocated to the Pod. To minimize disruption caused by Pod evictions due to resource contention, you should run Elasticsearch pods at the "Guaranteed" QoS level by setting both `requests` and `limits` to appropriate values. Consider also that Kubernetes slows down containers that exceed the CPU limit defined in the `limits` section. Do not set this value too low or it would affect the performance of Elasticsearch even if you have enough resources available in the Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For Elasticsearch objects, make sure to consider the heap size when you set resource requirements. The heap size should be half the size of RAM allocated to the Pod. To minimize disruption caused by Pod evictions due to resource contention, you should run Elasticsearch pods at the "Guaranteed" QoS level by setting both `requests` and `limits` to the same value. Consider also that Kubernetes slows down containers that exceed the CPU limit defined in the `limits` section. Do not set this value too low or it would affect the performance of Elasticsearch even if you have enough resources available in the Kubernetes cluster.
```

I realize this was present in the original doc too but it looks like we were insufficiently precise before. It looks like the github diff isn't making it obvious, but this is just a change from "to appropriate values" to "to the same value"

            cpu: 2
----

> For `containers` name, you can use `apm-server` for `kibana` as appropriate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For `containers` name, you can use `apm-server` or `kibana` as appropriate.
```

I liked the marker because it was very obvious what needed to change. Now it's easy to miss and not very clear IMO.

Author: I see your point. However, it's a blue marker on a dark background, not immediately obvious. Let's try to write as "accessible" as possible.

> For `containers` name, you can use `apm-server` for `kibana` as appropriate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the container name, you can use `apm-server` for `kibana` as appropriate.
```

Since we are just describing one container in a list of containers

    type: Container
----

> With the above restriction in place, if you create an Elasticsearch object without defining the `resources` section, you will get the following error:

Reviewer: It's not _exactly_ the same error but I guess I am splitting hairs here now :smile:
